In this lesson you will learn how to
create a budget that is in line with
your work plan. People who have been
doing this for a while will tell you
that these two things the work plan and
the budget are often done at the same
time in a single step however in order
to help you learn how to do each of
these tasks well we separated them
creating a budget involves three main
tasks analyzing the available
information forecasting your budget
requirements and submitting your
proposed budget analyzing means taking a
good look at last year's work plan and
financial reports if you have access to
prior years it's a good idea to look at
those as well as the current financials
contacts and priorities of your
organization
forecasting means estimating costs and
identifying those costs that may change
significantly over the fiscal year once
your budget requirements are complete
you submit your proposed budget you may
be asked to make adjustments before the
final approval ready to dive into each
of these steps great just before we do
that though let's take a moment to learn
about how the government financial cycle
works so that you can tie it in with
your own work as a manager
let's look at how you create your budget
requirements in the larger context of
the financial cycle of the government of
canada the fiscal year of government
runs from April to March 31st as you can
see some activities are both at the
government-wide level and organizational
level key activities happen to prepare
for the next fiscal year
others are happening during the fiscal
year and others occur after it is over
as a manager you're building your work
plan and budget requirements for the
next fiscal year in the fall you could
be responsible for a new program being
established through a budget proposal or
a memorandum to cabinet these are
discussed at the Finance Committee pre
budget consultations when the new
program is announced in the federal
budget you would then need to prepare a
Treasury Board submission and seek
approval to access the funding interim
supply provides the initial funding to
kick off the year while waiting for
Parliament to approve the full supply
now where do you fit in your work plan
feeds into your organization's
departmental plan and your budget rolls
up into the main estimates which present
the resources required by each
organization to fulfill its mandate and
cover its priorities for the coming year
full supply based on the main estimates
is approved around the end of June from
the moment that full supply has been
approved starting budgets are
officialized for each department budgets
are formalized into departmental
financial systems and business plans are
reflected in the performance agreements
of managers and employees Parliament can
grant additional spending powers during
the year through supplementary estimates
they may have an impact on your
department which may affect your budget
you will spend the money in your budget
throughout the year
this eventually makes its way at high
level into the public accounts of Canada
towards the end of the year you are
asked for information on the results you
achieved on the activities in your work
plan this becomes part of your
organization's departmental results
report and by then you're already
starting your work plan and budget
requirements for the next fiscal year
now that you have a better sense of the
financial cycle of the Government of
Canada and of how it relates to your
work as manager let's go back to our
analyze forecast submit work flow to
creating a budget the more often you do
this the more accurate your budget will
be don't worry your ability to make
precise forecasts will increase with
experience you got this the following
activity will allow you to examine the
key terms regarding budgets
now you're familiar with the key terms
you're going to have a chance to create
your proposed budget by using
information from last year and this year
click on any question marks that you see
and a question will appear for you to
consider once you've made a choice the
correct figure will appear in the budget
after getting what information you can
from last year's and the current year's
budget you find that you still need to
forecast some budget requirements let's
continue creating your proposed budget
click on any question marks you see and
a question will appear for you to
consider once you've made a choice the
correct figure will appear in the budget
you're now ready to submit your budget
to your director you may be asked to
explain any assumptions you used how
your figures were estimated and how your
budget will allow you to fulfill your
priorities if your director asks about
any costs the budget notes in your back
pocket will remind you how you reach
them you may need to make adjustments
before you get final approval if during
the meeting your director asks you to
adjust your budget you may also need to
update your work plan you may not have
enough budget in onm but find that you
can move that amount over from salary
though not common you can convert some
funds from salary to onm or vice versa
you just need to factor in the 27
percent employee benefit plan EBP in
your calculations this means that a
hundred thousand dollars in salary
equals a hundred and twenty seven
thousand dollars in onm it's the reverse
converting salary to onm talk to your
financial advisor if you think this
might be something you need to do you
may need some other sources of funds in
your budget to cover the priorities in
your work plan here are a few examples
of where you can turn transfer funds
within your own budget get extra money
from other managers use an untapped
surplus your director might have
Treasury Board submissions or a
memorandum to cabinet depending on your
business tap into an interdepartmental
settlement a Treasury Board submission
is a document used to seek Treasury
Board approval for program execution
strategy and or funding authorities for
an initiative that the organization
would otherwise not be able to undertake
or that is outside its delegated
authorities for more information look in
the toolbox a memorandum to cabinet is
used at any time of the year by
ministers who wish to consult
with their minister
colleagues in cabinet and reach a
cabinet decision for more information
look in the tool box in case you're
wondering what an interdepartmental
settlement is it's a process mechanism
unique to the government of canada where
a financial entry is created so that
departments can transfer incurred costs
between one another or collect revenue
from one another
consult with your financial management
advisor the following activity will
allow you to adjust your proposed budget
let's take what you have learned into
real life your organization will have
their own ways of doing budget
requirements take time out from the
course and talk to your financial
management advisor and director ask them
do we have a budget template what
budgets do we have operating which
includes salary and onn operating and
g's and cease operating and capital is
the capital budget managed centrally or
by each manager
we're at the end of this
lesson on how to create a budget take a
few moments to answer the following
questions to see what you remember